Coronavirus is perfect storm for offenders to target lonely children 04 May 2020, 00:59 At a time when the world continues to be on lockdown and when children and young people are stuck at home, it is still possible for them to feel lonely. And because the majority of schools are closed, children are without the support network which is so readily available to them in a traditional classroom setting, and they may be venturing online to find solace. New research from the NSPCC shows that lonely children who are relying more and more on social media are twice as likely to be groomed online. The findings come after the NSPCC warned coronavirus has created the perfect storm for offenders looking to target lonely, socially isolated children as they increasingly spend time online. More than 2,000 young people from across the UK, aged between 11 and 17, were surveyed by the NSPCC last year, with 4 per cent confirming they had sent, received or been asked to send sexual messages to an adult online. This doubled to 9 per cent for respondents with characteristics that may make them vulnerable, including loneliness, greater usage of social media, unhappiness and liking attention. Abusers will often target children who have expressed vulnerability online, mainly through sharing thoughts and feelings in social media posts and live streams, which many children are likely to be doing now. Now more than ever, parents and carers also have an important role to play by being aware of the online risks and having regular conversations with their child about what they are doing online. New advice on apps such as Zoom and Houseparty can be accessed on the co-created NSPCC and O2 Net Aware site which helps parents understand how to minimise the potential risks and ensure that online resources can be an important, and safe, part of coping with the implications of social distancing. The NSPCC site has information on the risks online and advice on keeping children safe including setting up parental controls. The NSPCC’s Childline website offers message boards where children can support each other. Alternatively, young people can share their worries with trained Childline counsellors by calling 0800 1111 or visiting www.childline.org.uk. Any adults with concerns about a child’s welfare can call NSPCC’s Helpline on0808 800 5000. MARGARET GALLAGHERNSPCC, Belfast Covid-19 gives us a chance to rebalance our realistic 21st century priorities To every complex problem there is always a simple and obvious answer, which is invariably wrong, This old statement is just as true today as in past years.Much of our public statements are focussed on abortion, same-sex relationships, differing interpretations of the Bible and the answers given to these complex and contentious issues are often given with a certainty which I and many others do not have. But what I do have is the certainty that if this society does not change to accommodate those who are different or who have different needs, then the society will not survive let alone progress. What we have seen in other times and countries is that if the powers that be do not respond to what the ‘progressive’ feelings indicate, then some form of revolution happens. A minor manifestation is the imposition of the Abortion rules on Northern Ireland by our UK parliament. Our leadership can’t complain, they can’t run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.They want to be part of UK but won’t apply their standards. What Covid 19 also shows us that our Health Service is fighting a mighty battle it would surely be better equipped for if it had been allowed to implement the Bengoa reforms of some years ago. The lack of money in NI would not be as serious if we had completed some of the projects which we have muttered about for years, if we took the tough decisions about rebalancing educational establishments and staffing; if we spend less on reviews, consultations and hiding our misbehaviour. Covid 19 gives us a chance to rebalance our realistic 21st century priorities. Have we got the leadership to take us out of the swamps in which we have been mired for all of my lifetime? Let us see a commitment to making 21st century decisions rapidly and effectively. Covid 19 is yet another wake up call. TOM EKINBelfast BT1 Very shady proposition TREVOR Ringland’s letter – ‘Government inclined to ‘move on’ rather than deal with crimes through justice system’ (April 14) – contains some interesting observations.He states: “Thus there was nothing achieved in Ireland through the use of violence that could not otherwise have been achieved through peaceful means.”A moot point to put it mildly. The six counties was founded along sectarian lines. Bigotry and gerrymandering were rife. It was to be a “Protestant state for a Protestant people”. Yet nationalists attended a unionist-controlled government over 50 years with no sign of any inclusiveness or acceptance of difference coming about. Then in the 1960s came the Civil Rights movement. The state response was not non-violent. So, Mr Ringland, what was achieved by peaceful means? He also raises the possibility of ‘legacy’ cases being acted upon after “unqualified” apologies. This would be followed by a case-by-case review which would be predicated on “national security” issues. Who decides that? I can answer that, a main protagonist in this war – the British. It appears to me that Mr Ringland adopts an extremely narrow perspective on the history of the six counties. His view of ‘legacy’ being under-pinned by a ‘national security’ to me is a fatal blow to an already very shady proposition. MANUS McDAIDDerry City Truth and human rights have and always will be on same side How strange it was that Amnesty International, a leading human rights organisation, would complain to The Advertising Watchdog, seeking an injunction against a poster campaign which had the temerity to state the truth that, ‘Abortion kills babies’. The fact that the unborn baby who dies cannot be seen or heard by the general public will never change this truth. Peter Benenson, the highly esteemed British Lawyer and Catholic convert who established Amnesty International, must be turning in his grave as the organisation he established to ‘defend the human’ now lines up against the truth, as it seeks to dehumanise humanity in its most fragile and vulnerable stage of development. Truth and human rights were always, and will always be on the same side. STIOFÁN Ó DUIBHFINBeal Feirste BT11
